Ballerina

Walking past these apparitions of the crowd, as the petals
of the skyscrapers dripped their tears, I found a ballerina
at Daley plaza, pirouetting with precision
--between the cascading jewels
The solemn Picasso bent before her, watching with fascination
As she slunk around the concrete maze from Madison to Washington

What does the song of rain whisper to my ear?

Sparse rays peaked through the nimbus, radiating the stage of the dancer
Exposing her stone beak and face of porcelain, wings of azure splatter.
Like a bow pouring its heart on a violin, gusts sustained a timber.
As she whistled between the buildings her feet suckled the nectar
from the roads like a coy hummingbird on a blooming flower

(Young businessmen were sprinting in their gauche costumes,
Dire hopes to catch the last express from Union at 6:02
A tossed cigarette was gasping the last of its fumes)

With her leaps she reached the heavens and I swear she breached the clouds,
Like a feather she slowly floated but her toes only teased the ground
I saw her eyes streaming a blue that blushed her cheeks.
Those tears traced behind her words as she glided through the streets
Then! Her porcelain stridently cracked as thunder roared--swiftly she took her leave

The fountains of Daley stopped gushing, and the clouds crowded above
I saw a deluge of colors diffusing through the scattering mist,
--gently caressing the concrete jungle.

Lightning struck a chord again, Picasso's veins strummed!
Exaggerating his ribs, his ambiguous svelte silhouette.
The ghost of electricity howled in the bones of his face
So too for a slim moment did the ballerina's--what do I remember?

The wind turbulently tore through the Hancock
As cold water of the Michigan brushed against the Pier
Does the rain cry when she tickles my ear?

Yes, there was the ridge of her lips slant and contoured
Yes, there was the sky splashing a palette of blue as she bat her wings
Oh, her hair actually dared follow her in flight into the infinite gray
And the words she left, I hoped to tell you what they said
Yet the soundless screams of the rain carried her voice away
